>> Estelle Weyl: So
let's talk about viewport a little bit.
So viewport,
you saw there was a ms-viewport, and
I said,
I don't know why I put it in this slide.
Well, basically this here,
>> Estelle Weyl: Viewport really is a CSS
feature, which is, what is the size of
this window, and how should I display it?
But viewport is so
important, to necessary it should be
by default in all your HTML files.
All of your HTML files should start
with the meta tag of viewport and
say width equals device-width.
And that's all you need to say,
but always include it.
Do not use user-scalable no.
Do not use max-zoom one or min-zoom one,
or whatever that feature is.
Maximum scale one, and minimum scale one.
What does that do?
Anyone can take a guess or
hover over this?
It makes it not scalable.
What happens when
a website is not scalable?
I can't read it, cuz I actually do
wear reading glasses, except for
I don't wear reading glasses, I don't
bring them with me anywhere, and so
I can't read if I can't zoom.
The only time you should
ever use maximum and
minimum scalable of one is if you
are doing a game on a touch device.
Because you don't want them
to accidentally zoom in or
zoom out when they're touching something.
Same reason that the only time to
use the tap highlights to get rid of
the selection, is a video game.
Because you don't want someone
to accidentally zoom in and
have half the game off of the screen,
cuz then they can't play.
But that is the only time ever.
Google Gmail, in the browser,
has zoom disabled.
I cannot read my e-mail on my mobile
device because they disabled, too.
And they also have eight or
nine different seat selection icons.
They really need more diverse
people on their staff.
So we have, in terms of this
viewport right here, in terms of
the viewport tag meta tag, we have width,
height, initial-scale, maximum-scale,
minimum-scale, and user-scalable,
which is basically all self-evident.
In terms of the viewport, @viewport,
we have min-width, max-width,
width max, min-height, max-height,
height, zoom, min-zoom, max, and
they're basically the exact same features.
>> Estelle Weyl: Where was I?
Here, so here, it says media screen,
max-width is 400 ms-viewport.
The reason that we had put
viewport earlier in was that,
it was in the wrong slide.
But it's basically only Microsoft
supported the viewport.
And I'm not sure if other
browsers are going to.
It's been discussed.
I don't know if it's been implemented.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
here it says, if meta is set to disable
zoom, there is no delay on touch
devices on the onClick events,
which makes it sound awesome, right?
But if meta is set to disable zoom,
you're a jerk.
So which one is more important,
not being a jerk?
So it makes sense on the video game that
the click device, the event handler,
if you can't zoom then it clicks right
away because normally, it's waiting for
the double tap to see if
you wanna zoom in or not.
If it's a video game,
you don't want the double tap.
You don't want the zoom.
You can get rid of it, otherwise,
make sure you include it.
What I was saying in terms of touching,
the tap highlight color,
the user selective none,
the touch-callout, none.
These are the things I talked about
during the talk about selecting text.
Here it is again because it's very
important, ms touch-action none.
These are all to prevent accidental
OS things during a game,
no reason to use it otherwise.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
use cases of these media queries.
So here I have media screen and
min-width is 38ems.
So anything that's 38ems or bigger,
content put it as 21%.
>> Estelle Weyl: Because
there's a different way of doing this,
which is basically just saying
make the paragraph a max-width of
whatever I want it to be a max-width of.
So here let's open this up and play.
Yes, I do wanna leave.
Okay, so here I have 21%, right?
>> Estelle Weyl: If I shrink it,
>> Estelle Weyl: At least I get like so,
on a small device, I don't wanna have
huge padding on both sides, right?
On a larger device,
I wanna lot of white space.
So here, I still have five pixels
of padding on either side, but
if it's a really big screen, I can have
a nice large column down the middle.
This is much more legible
than if I did padding zero.
Those lines are not legible, right?
21% was nice, right, but
I could also do,
>> Estelle Weyl: Paragraph,
max-width 54ems, and
maybe make that smaller,
44ems, margin, right?
That's a different way of doing
it without media queries.
So media queries are useful,
we can always think of ways to
do it without media queries.
So this is one scenario where
media query ways might be useful.